#summary Developer's Guide - Component - Profiling
#labels Phase-Implementation
#sidebar DeveloperGuideSidebar

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

= Overview =

The Profiling component performs drive/computer recognization. It makes *Syncless* portable because of the ability to recognize different drives/computers by creating a Globally Unique IDentifier (GUID) in each of them. It also performs conversion of a physical directory/file path to a logical address, and vice versa. This conversion is necessary, because *CompareAndSync* only recognizes physical path while *Tagging* recognizes a logical path.

= The Classes =

The *Profiling* component consists of several important sub-components, including a main logic layer - `ProfilingLayer`, model objects - `Profile` and `ProfileMapping`, helper components - `ProfileMerger`, `ProfilingHelper`,`ProfilingXMLHelper` and `ProfilingGUIDHelper`.

== !ProfilingLayer ==

This is the main logic layer which is called by the *!SystemLogicLayer* to perform profiling-related operations. When Syncless is started up, !SystemLogicLayer will call `ProfilingLayer` for initialization.

When initialized, `ProfilingLayer` will call `ProfileXMLHelper` to load the default drive/computer profile from _profiling.xml_ in the computer. If there are more than one _profiling.xml_ files available, `ProfilingLayer` will call `ProfileMerger` to perform merging of several drive/computer profiles based on the various sources of _profiling.xml_.

After initilization, `ProfilingLayer` can be called to perform profiling-related operations when a drive-in/drive out event is detected.

When a drive-in event is detected, `ProfilingLayer` will create a mapping profile based on the _guid.id_ contained in the new drive, and perform a merge of the new mapping profile with the current working profile.

Likewise, when a drive-out event is detected, `ProfilingLayer` will remove the mapping profile of that particular drive and mark it as unavailable.

== Glossary ==

_GUID_ : <a href = "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Globally_Unique_Identifier">Reference</a>