#summary Getting Started Tutorial: Get up to speed with Syncless [Ver. 0.9] and enjoy the power of n-way seamless file synchronization through tagging.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Contents =

= Welcome to Syncless =

File Synchronization is taken on a whole new level with _*Syncless*_. This document familiarizes you with the basic features in _*Syncless*_ and introduces you to the concepts of *tagging* and *n-way* _seamless synchronization_ in _*Syncless*_.

_*Syncless*_ allows you to synchronize your files and folders automatically through the use of tags, even across removable drives. With _*Syncless*_, you can quickly tag multiple folders and configure them to be either in _seamless_ mode or _manual_ synchronization mode. Syncless also includes powerful filters and versioning capability, along with the finest usability that caters to individual's workflow. Lastly, Syncless is a portable app, so it will run off any removable drive and no installation is required.

== What You’ll Learn ==
If you follow all the steps in this tutorial, you’ll be able to:
  * Synchronize files/folders
  * Tag in multiple ways
  * Manage Tags
  * Run Syncless off a thumbdrive
  * Apply filters to tags
  * Learn shortcuts to speed up productivity
  * Eject removable drives

== Downloading and Running ==
Before continuing, make sure you are running a Windows operating system (XP and above has been tested so far to be working well).

To download Syncless, please visit http://code.google.com/p/big5sync/downloads/list to get the latest version (ver 0.9) of Syncless. After that, unzip the package to anywhere and run Syncless.exe. Absolutely no installation of Syncless is required.

To make it easier to do the tasks in this tutorial, it is a good idea to print this document before you start. In some tasks shown in this tutorial, you will need to choose toolbar commands, which looks like this:
Toolbar > Create Tag

The term after Toolbar is the name of the command in the main toolbar located in the Main Window.

== The Syncless Interface ==

When you run Syncless, you will be greeted with the viewing area, which allows you to choose what you want to do next, such as create tag, tag a folder, view tag details or etc.